docs/extend/language-packs.md, before:

# Translating Flarum

::: tip

To make this process easier, we **strongly** recommend using the community-led [weblate](https://discuss.flarum.org/d/20807-simplify-translation-process-with-weblate) initiative to contribute to existing language packs, or create new ones.
This automates checking for changes in the extension's used translations.

See [this GitHub page](https://github.com/rob006-software/flarum-lang-template/wiki) for a guide to getting started.

:::

## Declaring a Language Pack

Language packs should be their own extensions, with no other code / logic included.

The [`LanguagePack` extender](https://github.com/flarum/core/blob/master/src/Extend/LanguagePack.php) allows you to define that your extension is a language pack.

This extender has no setters. All you have to do is instantiate it, make sure you language pack is in the `locale` folder, and you're done!

Here's a quick example from [Flarum English](https://github.com/flarum/lang-english/blob/master/extend.php):

```php
<?php

return new Flarum\Extend\LanguagePack();
```

The `composer.json` will also need some special values. It now needs a `flarum-locale` info object in `extra`, like `flarum-extension`. You can simply insert the following underneath the value of `flarum-extension` while remaining inside `extra`:

```json
"flarum-locale": {
  "code": "en",
  "title": "English"
}
```

And that's it! It should work out of the box.

## Translation Files

Translation files should go in the `locale` directory. Each file should be named `EXTENSION_ID.yml`, where EXTENSION_ID is the [extension's ID](admin.md#telling-the-api-about-your-extension).

The contents of the file should correspond to the extension's english translations, with the values translated in your language. See our [internationalization](i18n.md) docs for more information. 

## DayJS Translations

Flarum use [the DayJS library](https://day.js.org/) to format and internationalize dates.

You can create a `config.js` file in the `locale` directory to configure date internationalization for your language.

The file should look like:

```js
dayjs.locale('xx');
```

where the `xx` can be copied from https://unpkg.com/browse/dayjs@1.10.4/locale/ for your language.

Alternatively, instead of using a compiled locale object, you can directly create one [as per the dayjs documentation](https://day.js.org/docs/en/customization/customization). This is slightly less efficient though.

Commit message:

Update Translation to include "Tip" flarum-lang
Including flarum-lang in the tip-section of the translation page

docs/extend/language-packs.md, after:

# Translating Flarum

::: tip

The Flarum Foundation is supporting translators while ensuring continous availibilty of language packs. Therefor "flarum-lang" was initiated. You can learn all about this by visiting the [GIT repository](https://github.com/flarum-lang/about). Either if you want to support an existing language pack - or if you want to start a new translation it's best to [get in touch with the flarum-lang team](https://discuss.flarum.org/d/27519-the-flarum-language-project). 

Also used by flarum-lang an important starting place is [Weblate](https://discuss.flarum.org/d/20807-simplify-translation-process-with-weblate) which makes translating much easier. 

:::

## Declaring a Language Pack

Language packs should be their own extensions, with no other code / logic included.

The [`LanguagePack` extender](https://github.com/flarum/core/blob/master/src/Extend/LanguagePack.php) allows you to define that your extension is a language pack.

This extender has no setters. All you have to do is instantiate it, make sure you language pack is in the `locale` folder, and you're done!

Here's a quick example from [Flarum English](https://github.com/flarum/lang-english/blob/master/extend.php):

```php
<?php

return new Flarum\Extend\LanguagePack();
```

The `composer.json` will also need some special values. It now needs a `flarum-locale` info object in `extra`, like `flarum-extension`. You can simply insert the following underneath the value of `flarum-extension` while remaining inside `extra`:

```json
"flarum-locale": {
  "code": "en",
  "title": "English"
}
```

And that's it! It should work out of the box.

## Translation Files

Translation files should go in the `locale` directory. Each file should be named `EXTENSION_ID.yml`, where EXTENSION_ID is the [extension's ID](admin.md#telling-the-api-about-your-extension).

The contents of the file should correspond to the extension's english translations, with the values translated in your language. See our [internationalization](i18n.md) docs for more information. 

## DayJS Translations

Flarum use [the DayJS library](https://day.js.org/) to format and internationalize dates.

You can create a `config.js` file in the `locale` directory to configure date internationalization for your language.

The file should look like:

```js
dayjs.locale('xx');
```

where the `xx` can be copied from https://unpkg.com/browse/dayjs@1.10.4/locale/ for your language.

Alternatively, instead of using a compiled locale object, you can directly create one [as per the dayjs documentation](https://day.js.org/docs/en/customization/customization). This is slightly less efficient though.
