extend/settings.md, before:

# Extension Settings

At some point while making an extension. you will probably want to save some sort of setting to the database. Thankfully, Flarum allows you to do this extremely easily.

## The SettingsRepositoryInterface

The [`SettingsRepositoryInterface`](https://github.com/flarum/core/blob/master/src/Settings/SettingsRepositoryInterface.php) allows you to do just that, interface with the settings repository!

The first step to interfacing with the table is to load the `SettingsRepositoryInterface` into your class's [IoC](https://laravel.com/docs/4.2/ioc):

```php
<?php

namespace acme\HelloWorld\ExampleDir;

use Flarum\Settings\SettingsRepositoryInterface;

class ClassInterfacesWithSettings
{
    /**
     * @var SettingsRepositoryInterface
     */
    protected $settings;

    public function __construct(SettingsRepositoryInterface $settings)
    {
        $this->settings = $settings;
    }
}
```

Great! Now the `SettingsRepositoryInterface` is available through `$this->settings` in our class.

### Getting Settings

To get values from the Settings table, all we have to do is use `SettingsRepositoryInterface`'s `get` function:

`$this->settings->get('forum_title')`

The `get` function accepts 2 arguments:

1. The key of the setting you are trying to get in the Settings table
2. (Optional) Allows you to set a default value if the key does not contain any data, otherwise, it will return `null`

### Setting a value

Setting data is just as easy as getting data, use the `set` function:

`$this->settings->set('forum_title', 'Super Awesome Forum')`

The `set` function also takes 2 arguments:

1. The key of the setting you are trying to set in the Settings table
2. The value you want to set it to

### Other functions

The `all` function returns the entire settings table

The `delete` function allows you to delete an entry on the table, with the first argument being the key to delete.

## Extension settings

### SettingsModal

You'll likely want to allow a forum admin to change a setting related to your extension to their liking. This can be achieved through the `SettingsModal`

First, setup your admin JS as discussed [here](index.md#environment-setup) (replacing forum with admin).

We will continue to use the "Hello World" example, but your `main.js` should look something like this:

```js
import HelloWorldSettingsModal from "./components/HelloWorldSettingsModal";

app.initializers.add('acme-hello-world', () => {
    app.extensionSettings['acme-hello-world'] = () => app.modal.show(new HelloWorldSettingsModal());
});
```

Then create a `components` folder in the same directory as your `main.js`. Next, a file called `HelloWorldSettingsModal.js`:

```js
import SettingsModal from 'flarum/components/SettingsModal';

export default class HelloWorldSettingsModal extends SettingsModal {
    className() {
        return 'Modal--small';
    }

    title() {
        return app.translator.trans('acme-helloworld.admin.settings.title');
    }

    form() {
        return [
            <div className="Form-group">
                <label>{app.translator.trans('acme-helloworld.admin.settings.firstSetting')}</label>
                <input className="FormControl" bidi={this.setting('acme.helloworld.firstSetting')}/>
            </div>,

            <div className="Form-group">
                <label>{app.translator.trans('acme-helloworld.admin.settings.secondSetting')}</label>
                <input className="FormControl" bidi={this.setting('acme.helloworld.secondSetting')}/>
            </div>,
        ];
    }
}
```

Always remember to use [internationalizations](internationalization.md)!

Each `Form-group` should contain an individual input. The `bidi` property on the input corresponds to the setting on the Settings table that the input will modify. It will be automatically propagated with the current settings value, and it will change the value once "Save Settings" button is clicked.

*Oh? What's this?* When you click "Save Settings" the (settings) [Saved](https://github.com/flarum/core/blob/master/src/Settings/Event/Saved.php) event is dispatched? How cool!

Commit message:

Work on docs about settings
- Clarify some things
- Fix incorrect terminology about IoC and dependency injection
- Don't talk about a database - the `SettingsRepositoryInterface`
  exists to hide this kind of knowledge from extensions.

extend/settings.md, after:

# Extension Settings

At some point while making an extension, you might want to read some of the forum's settings or store certain settings specific to your extension. Thankfully, Flarum makes this very easy.

## The Settings Repository

Reading or changing settings can be done using an implementation of the `SettingsRepositoryInterface`.
Because Flarum uses Laravel's [IoC container](https://laravel.com/docs/ioc), you don't need to worry about where to obtain such a repository, or how to instantiate one.
Instead, you can rely on the container to instantiate your class and inject the correct dependencies.

```php
<?php

namespace acme\HelloWorld\ExampleDir;

use Flarum\Settings\SettingsRepositoryInterface;

class ClassInterfacesWithSettings
{
    /**
     * @var SettingsRepositoryInterface
     */
    protected $settings;

    public function __construct(SettingsRepositoryInterface $settings)
    {
        $this->settings = $settings;
    }
}
```

Great! Now the `SettingsRepositoryInterface` is available through `$this->settings` in our class.

### Reading Settings

To read settings, all we have to do is use the repository's `get()` function:

`$this->settings->get('forum_title')`

The `get()` function accepts two arguments:

1. The name of the setting you are trying to read.
2. (Optional) A default value if no value has been stored for such a setting. By default, this will be `null`.

### Storing Settings

Storing settings ist just as easy, use the `set()` function:

`$this->settings->set('forum_title', 'Super Awesome Forum')`

The `set` function also accepts two arguments:

1. The name of the setting you are trying to change.
2. The value you want to store for this setting.

### Other functions

The `all()` function returns an array of all known settings.

The `delete($name)` function lets you remove a named setting.

## A Frontend for Your Settings

### SettingsModal

You'll likely want to allow a forum admin to change a setting related to your extension to their liking. This can be achieved through the `SettingsModal`

First, setup your admin JS as discussed [here](index.md#environment-setup) (replacing forum with admin).

We will continue to use the "Hello World" example, but your `main.js` should look something like this:

```js
import HelloWorldSettingsModal from "./components/HelloWorldSettingsModal";

app.initializers.add('acme-hello-world', () => {
    app.extensionSettings['acme-hello-world'] = () => app.modal.show(new HelloWorldSettingsModal());
});
```

Then create a `components` folder in the same directory as your `main.js`. Next, a file called `HelloWorldSettingsModal.js`:

```js
import SettingsModal from 'flarum/components/SettingsModal';

export default class HelloWorldSettingsModal extends SettingsModal {
    className() {
        return 'Modal--small';
    }

    title() {
        return app.translator.trans('acme-helloworld.admin.settings.title');
    }

    form() {
        return [
            <div className="Form-group">
                <label>{app.translator.trans('acme-helloworld.admin.settings.firstSetting')}</label>
                <input className="FormControl" bidi={this.setting('acme.helloworld.firstSetting')}/>
            </div>,

            <div className="Form-group">
                <label>{app.translator.trans('acme-helloworld.admin.settings.secondSetting')}</label>
                <input className="FormControl" bidi={this.setting('acme.helloworld.secondSetting')}/>
            </div>,
        ];
    }
}
```

Always remember to use [internationalizations](internationalization.md)!

Each `Form-group` should contain an individual input. The `bidi` property on the input corresponds to the setting on the Settings table that the input will modify. It will be automatically propagated with the current settings value, and it will change the value once "Save Settings" button is clicked.

*Oh? What's this?* When you click "Save Settings" the (settings) [Saved](https://github.com/flarum/core/blob/master/src/Settings/Event/Saved.php) event is dispatched? How cool!
