i18n/it/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/extend/testing.md, before:

# Test

Automated testing ensures that your extension performs as you expect it to, helps avoid introducing new bugs or regressions, and saves time on manual testing. Flarum currently provides tooling for automated backend unit and integration tests, and we plan to release support for frontend unit testing and E2E testing in the future.

## Backend Tests

The `flarum/testing` library is used by core and some bundled extensions for automated unit and integration tests. It is essentially a collection of utils that allow testing Flarum core and extensions with PHPUnit.

### Setup

Firstly, you will need to require the `flarum/testing` composer package as a dev dependency for your extension:

`composer require --dev flarum/testing:^1.0`

Then, you will need to set up a file structure for tests, and add PHPUnit configuration:

```
tests
├── fixtures (put any files needed by your tests here (blade templates, images, etc))
├── integration
│   ├── setup.php (code below)
│   └── PUT INTEGRATION TESTS HERE (organizing into folder is generally a good idea)
├── unit
│   ├── PUT UNIT TESTS HERE
├── phpunit.integration.xml (code below)
└── phpunit.unit.xml (code below)
```

#### phpunit.integration.xml

This is just an example [phpunit config file](https://phpunit.readthedocs.io/en/9.3/configuration.html) for integration tests. You can tweak this as needed, but keep `backupGlobals`, `backupStaticAttributes`, and `processIsolation` unchanged.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<phpunit backupGlobals="false"
         backupStaticAttributes="false"
         colors="true"
         convertErrorsToExceptions="true"
         convertNoticesToExceptions="true"
         convertWarningsToExceptions="true"
         processIsolation="true"
         stopOnFailure="false">

    <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="Flarum Integration Tests">
            <directory suffix="Test.php">./integration</directory>
        </testsuite>
    </testsuites>
</phpunit>
```

#### phpunit.unit.xml

This is just an example [phpunit config file](https://phpunit.readthedocs.io/en/9.3/configuration.html) for unit tests. You can tweak this as needed.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<phpunit backupGlobals="false"
         backupStaticAttributes="false"
         colors="true"
         convertErrorsToExceptions="true"
         convertNoticesToExceptions="true"
         convertWarningsToExceptions="true"
         processIsolation="false"
         stopOnFailure="false">

    <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="Flarum Unit Tests">
            <directory suffix="Test.php">./unit</directory>
        </testsuite>
    </testsuites>
    <listeners>
        <listener class="\Mockery\Adapter\Phpunit\TestListener"></listener>
    </listeners>
</phpunit>
```

#### setup.php

This script will be run to set up a testing database / file structure.

```php
<?php

use Flarum\Testing\integration\Setup\SetupScript;

require __DIR__.'/../../vendor/autoload.php';

$setup = new SetupScript();

$setup->run();
```

#### composer.json Modifications

We will also want to add scripts to our `composer.json`, so that we can run our test suite via `composer test`. Add some variant of the following to your `composer.json`:

```json
"scripts": {
    "test": [
        "@test:unit",
        "@test:integration"
    ],
    "test:unit": "phpunit -c tests/phpunit.unit.xml",
    "test:integration": "phpunit -c tests/phpunit.integration.xml",
    "test:setup": "@php tests/integration/setup.php"
},
"scripts-descriptions": {
    "test": "Runs all tests.",
    "test:unit": "Runs all unit tests.",
    "test:integration": "Runs all integration tests.",
    "test:setup": "Sets up a database for use with integration tests. Execute this only once."
}
```

#### GitHub Testing Workflow

In public repos, GitHub Actions allow you to run all your tests on every commit and pull request for free. You can copy [Flarum core's GitHub Actions](https://github.com/flarum/core/blob/master/.github/workflows/test.yml) testing workflow into your extension's `.github/workflows` folder to enable this.

---

Now that we have everything in place, we need to set up our testing site for integration tests. For this, we will need a MySQL or MariaDb instance, and a place to store testing files.

Testing database information is configured via the `DB_HOST` (defaults to `localhost`), `DB_PORT` (defaults to `3306`), `DB_DATABASE` (defaults to `flarum_test`), `DB_USERNAME` (defaults to `root`), `DB_PASSWORD` (defaults to `root`), and `DB_PREFIX` (defaults to `''`) environmental variables. The testing tmp directory path is configured via the `FLARUM_TEST_TMP_DIR_LOCAL` or `FLARUM_TEST_TMP_DIR` environmental variables, with the former taking precedence over the latter. If neither are provided, a `tmp` directory will be created in the `vendor` folder of your extension's local install.

Now that we've provided the needed information, all we need to do is run `composer test:setup` in our extension's root directory, and we have our testing environment ready to go!

Since [(almost)](https://github.com/flarum/framework/blob/4ecd9a9b2ff0e9ba42bb158f3f83bb3ddfc10853/framework/core/tests/integration/api/discussions/ListWithFulltextSearchTest.php#L29-L45) all database operations in integration tests are run in transactions, developers working on multiple extensions will generally find it more convenient to use one shared database and tmp directory for testing all their extensions. To do this, set the database config and `FLARUM_TEST_TMP_DIR` environmental variables in your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` to the path you want to use, and run the setup script for any one extension (you'll still want to include the setup file in every repo for CI testing via GitHub Actions). You should then be good to go for any Flarum extension (or core).

### Using Integration Tests

Flarum's integration test utils are contained in the `Flarum\Testing\integration\TestCase` class. It:

- Boots (and makes available) an instance of the Flarum application.
- Allows pre-populating the database, enabling extensions, and adding extenders.
- Runs all database changes in transactions, so your test database retains the default post-installation state.
- Allows sending requests through the middleware stack to test HTTP endpoints.

Your testcase classes should extend this class.

#### Test Case Setup

There are several important utilities available for your test cases:

- The `setting($key, $value)` method allows you to override settings before the app has booted. This is useful if your boot process has logic depending on settings (e.g. which driver to use for some system).
- Similarly, the `config($key, $value)` method allows you to override config.php values before the app has booted. You can use dot-delimited keys to set deep-nested values in the config array.
- The `extension($extensionId)` method will take Flarum IDs of extensions to enable as arguments. Your extension should always call this with your extension's ID at the start of test cases, unless the goal of the test case in question is to confirm some behavior present without your extension, and compare that to behavior when your extension is enabled. If your extension is dependent on other extensions, make sure they are included in the composer.json `require` field (or `require-dev` for [optional dependencies](extending-extensions.md)), and also list their composer package names when calling `extension()`. Note that you must list them in a valid order.
- The `extend($extender)` method takes instances of extenders as arguments, and is useful for testing extenders introduced by your extension for other extensions to use.
- The `prepareDatabase()` method allow you to pre-populate your database. This could include adding users, discussions, posts, configuring permissions, etc. Its argument is an associative array that maps table names to arrays of [record arrays](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/queries#insert-statements).

If your test case needs users beyond the default admin user, you can use the `$this->normalUser()` method of the `Flarum\Testing\integration\RetrievesAuthorizedUsers` trait.

:::warning

The `TestCase` class will boot a Flarum instance the first time its `app()` method is called. Any uses of `prepareDatabase`, `extend`, or `extension` after this happens will have no effect. Make sure you have done all the setup you need in your test case before calling `app()`, or `database()`, `server()`, or `send()`, which call `app()` implicitly. If you need to make database modifications after the app has booted, you can use the regular Eloquent save method, or the `Illuminate\Database\ConnectionInterface` instance obtained via calling the `database()` method.

:::

Of course, since this is all based on PHPUnit, you can use the `setUp()` methods of your test classes for common setup tasks.

Per esempio:

```php
<?php

/*
 * This file is part of Flarum.
 *
 * For detailed copyright and license information, please view the
 * LICENSE file that was distributed with this source code.
 */

namespace CoolExtension\Tests\integration;

use Flarum\Testing\integration\RetrievesAuthorizedUsers;
use Flarum\Testing\integration\TestCase;

class SomeTest extends TestCase
{
    use RetrievesAuthorizedUsers;

    public function setUp(): void
    {
        parent::setUp();

        $this->setting('my.custom.setting', true);

        // Let's assume our extension depends on tags.
        // Note that tags will need to be in your extension's composer.json's `require-dev`.
        // Also, make sure you include the ID of the extension currently being tested, unless you're
        // testing the baseline without your extension.
        $this->extension('flarum-tags', 'my-cool-extension');

        // Note that this input isn't validated: make sure you're populating with valid, representative data.
        $this->prepareDatabase([
            'users' => [
                $this->normalUser() // Available for convenience.
            ],
            'discussions' => [
                ['id' => 1, 'title' => 'some title', 'created_at' => Carbon::now(), 'last_posted_at' => Carbon::now(), 'user_id' => 1, 'first_post_id' => 1, 'comment_count' => 1]
            ],
            'posts' => [
                ['id' => 1, 'number' => 1, 'discussion_id' => 1, 'created_at' => Carbon::now(), 'user_id' => 1, 'type' => 'comment', 'content' => '<t><p>something</p></t>']
            ]
        ]);

        // Most test cases won't need to test extenders, but if you want to, you can.
        $this->extend((new CoolExtensionExtender)->doSomething('hello world'));
    }

    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function some_phpunit_test_case()
    {
        // ...
    }

    // ...
}
```

#### Sending Requests

A common application of automated testing is pinging various HTTP endpoints with various data, authenticated as different users. You can use this to ensure that:

- Users can't access content they're not supported to access.
- Permission-based create/edit/delete operations perform as expected.
- The type and schema of data returned is correct.
- Some desired side effect is applied when pinging an API.
- The basic API operations needed by your extension aren't erroring, and don't break when you make changes.

`TestCase` provides several utilities:

- The `request()` method constructs a `Psr\Http\Message\ServerRequestInterface` implementing object from a path, a method, and some options, which can be used for authentication, attaching cookies, or configuring the JSON request body. See the [method docblock](https://github.com/flarum/testing/blob/main/src/integration/TestCase.php) for more information on available options.
- Once you've created a request instance, you can send it (and get a response object back) via the `send()` method.

Per esempio:

```php
<?php

/*
 * This file is part of Flarum.
 *
 * For detailed copyright and license information, please view the
 * LICENSE file that was distributed with this source code.
 */

namespace CoolExtension\Tests\integration;

use Flarum\Testing\integration\TestCase;

class SomeTest extends TestCase
{
    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function can_search_users()
    {
        $response = $this->send(
          $this->request('GET', '/api/users', ['authenticatedAs' => 1])
               ->withQueryParams(['filter' => ['q' => 'john group:1'], 'sort' => 'username'])
        );

        $this->assertEquals(200, $response->getStatusCode());
    }

    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function can_create_user()
    {
        $response = $this->send(
          $this->request(
                'POST',
                '/api/users',
                [
                    'authenticatedAs' => 1,
                    'json' => [
                        'data' => [
                            'attributes' => [
                                'username' => 'test',
                                'password' => 'too-obscure',
                                'email' => 'test@machine.local'
                            ]
                        ]
                    ]
                ]
            )
        );

        $this->assertEquals(200, $response->getStatusCode());
    }

    // ...
}
```

:::cautela

If you want to send query parameters in a GET request, you can't include them in the path; you'll need to add them afterwards with the `withQueryParams` method.

:::

:::cautela

This is an extreme edge case, but note that MySQL does not update the fulltext index in transactions, so the standard approach won't work if you're trying to test a modified fulltext query. See [core's approach](https://github.com/flarum/framework/blob/main/framework/core/tests/integration/extenders/SimpleFlarumSearchTest.php) for an example of a workaround.

:::

#### Console Tests

If you want to test custom console commands, you can extend `Flarum\Testing\integration\ConsoleTestCase` (which itself extends the regular `Flarum\Testing\integration\TestCase`). It provides 2 useful methods:

- `$this->console()` returns an instance of `Symfony\Component\Console\Application`
- `$this->runCommand()` takes an array that will be wrapped in `Symfony\Component\Console\Input\ArrayInput`, and run. See the [Symfony code docblock](https://github.com/symfony/console/blob/5.x/Input/ArrayInput.php#L22) for more information.

Per esempio:

```php
<?php

/*
 * This file is part of Flarum.
 *
 * For detailed copyright and license information, please view the
 * LICENSE file that was distributed with this source code.
 */

namespace CoolExtension\Tests\integration;

use Flarum\Tests\integration\ConsoleTestCase;

class ConsoleTest extends ConsoleTestCase
{
    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function command_works()
    {
        $input = [
            'command' => 'some:command',  // The command name, equivalent of `php flarum some:command`
            'foo' => 'bar',  // arguments
            '--lorem' => 'ipsum'  // options
        ];

        $this->assertEquals('Some Output.', $this->runCommand($input));
    }
}
```

### Using Unit Tests

Unit testing in Flarum uses [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/getting-started/phpunit-9.html) and so unit testing in flarum is much like any other PHP application. You can find [general tutorials on testing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9-X_b_fxmRM) if you're also new to php.

When writing unit tests in Flarum, here are some helpful tips.

#### Mocking Flarum Services

Unlike the running app, or even integration tests, there is no app/container/etc to inject service instances into our classes.  Now all the  useful settings, or helpers your extension use require a _mock_ . We want to limit mocking to just the key services, supporting only the minimum interactions needed to test the contract of our individual functions.

```php
    public function setUp(): void
    {
        parent::setUp();
        // example - if our setting needs settings, we can mock the settings repository
        $settingsRepo = m::mock(SettingsRepositoryInterface::class);
        // and then control specific return values for each setting key
        $settingsRepo->shouldReceive('get')->with('some-plugin-key')->andReturn('some-value-useful-for-testing');
        // construct your class under test, passing mocked services as needed
        $this->serializer = new YourClassUnderTest($settingsRepo);
    }
```

Some aspects require more mocks. If you're validating authorization interactions for instance you might need to mock your users `User::class` and the request's method that provides them as well!

```
    $this->actor = m::mock(User::class);
    $request = m::mock(Request::class)->makePartial();
    $request->shouldReceive('getAttribute->getActor')->andReturn($this->actor);
    $this->actor->shouldReceive('SOME PERMISSION')->andReturn(true/false);
```

NOTE: If you find your extension needs _lots and lots_ of mocks, or mocks that feel unrelated, it might be an opportunity to simplify your code, perhaps moving key logic into their own smaller functions (that dont require mocks).

## Frontend Tests

Coming Soon!

## E2E Tests

Coming Soon!

Commit message:

New Crowdin updates (#447)
* New translations backend-events.md (Spanish)

* New translations testing.md (Spanish)

* New translations models.md (Spanish)

* New translations filesystem.md (Spanish)

* New translations github-actions.md (Spanish)

* New translations static-code-analysis.md (Spanish)

* New translations testing.md (German)

* New translations models.md (German)

* New translations github-actions.md (German)

* New translations static-code-analysis.md (German)

* New translations testing.md (Italian)

* New translations models.md (Italian)

* New translations github-actions.md (Italian)

* New translations static-code-analysis.md (Italian)

* New translations testing.md (Turkish)

* New translations models.md (Turkish)

* New translations github-actions.md (Turkish)

* New translations static-code-analysis.md (Turkish)

* New translations testing.md (Chinese Simplified)

* New translations models.md (Chinese Simplified)

* New translations github-actions.md (Chinese Simplified)

* New translations static-code-analysis.md (Chinese Simplified)

* New translations testing.md (Vietnamese)

* New translations models.md (Vietnamese)

* New translations github-actions.md (Vietnamese)

* New translations static-code-analysis.md (Vietnamese)

i18n/it/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/extend/testing.md, after:

# Test

Automated testing ensures that your extension performs as you expect it to, helps avoid introducing new bugs or regressions, and saves time on manual testing. Flarum currently provides tooling for automated backend unit and integration tests, and we plan to release support for frontend unit testing and E2E testing in the future.

## Backend Tests

The `flarum/testing` library is used by core and some bundled extensions for automated unit and integration tests. It is essentially a collection of utils that allow testing Flarum core and extensions with PHPUnit.

### Setup

:::tip [Flarum CLI](https://github.com/flarum/cli)

You can use the CLI to automatically add and update backend testing infrastructure to your code:

```bash
$ flarum-cli infra backendTesting
```

:::

Firstly, you will need to require the `flarum/testing` composer package as a dev dependency for your extension:

```bash
composer require --dev flarum/testing:^1.0
```

Then, you will need to set up a file structure for tests, and add PHPUnit configuration:

```
tests
├── fixtures (put any files needed by your tests here (blade templates, images, etc))
├── integration
│   ├── setup.php (code below)
│   └── PUT INTEGRATION TESTS HERE (organizing into folder is generally a good idea)
├── unit
│   ├── PUT UNIT TESTS HERE
├── phpunit.integration.xml (code below)
└── phpunit.unit.xml (code below)
```

#### phpunit.integration.xml

This is just an example [phpunit config file](https://phpunit.readthedocs.io/en/9.3/configuration.html) for integration tests. You can tweak this as needed, but keep `backupGlobals`, `backupStaticAttributes`, and `processIsolation` unchanged.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<phpunit backupGlobals="false"
         backupStaticAttributes="false"
         colors="true"
         convertErrorsToExceptions="true"
         convertNoticesToExceptions="true"
         convertWarningsToExceptions="true"
         processIsolation="true"
         stopOnFailure="false">

    <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="Flarum Integration Tests">
            <directory suffix="Test.php">./integration</directory>
        </testsuite>
    </testsuites>
</phpunit>
```

#### phpunit.unit.xml

This is just an example [phpunit config file](https://phpunit.readthedocs.io/en/9.3/configuration.html) for unit tests. You can tweak this as needed.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<phpunit backupGlobals="false"
         backupStaticAttributes="false"
         colors="true"
         convertErrorsToExceptions="true"
         convertNoticesToExceptions="true"
         convertWarningsToExceptions="true"
         processIsolation="false"
         stopOnFailure="false">

    <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="Flarum Unit Tests">
            <directory suffix="Test.php">./unit</directory>
        </testsuite>
    </testsuites>
    <listeners>
        <listener class="\Mockery\Adapter\Phpunit\TestListener"></listener>
    </listeners>
</phpunit>
```

#### setup.php

This script will be run to set up a testing database / file structure.

```php
<?php

use Flarum\Testing\integration\Setup\SetupScript;

require __DIR__.'/../../vendor/autoload.php';

$setup = new SetupScript();

$setup->run();
```

#### composer.json Modifications

We will also want to add scripts to our `composer.json`, so that we can run our test suite via `composer test`. Add some variant of the following to your `composer.json`:

```json
"scripts": {
    "test": [
        "@test:unit",
        "@test:integration"
    ],
    "test:unit": "phpunit -c tests/phpunit.unit.xml",
    "test:integration": "phpunit -c tests/phpunit.integration.xml",
    "test:setup": "@php tests/integration/setup.php"
},
"scripts-descriptions": {
    "test": "Runs all tests.",
    "test:unit": "Runs all unit tests.",
    "test:integration": "Runs all integration tests.",
    "test:setup": "Sets up a database for use with integration tests. Execute this only once."
}
```

#### GitHub Testing Workflow

To run tests on every commit and pull request, check out the [GitHub Actions](github-actions.md) page.

---

Now that we have everything in place, we need to set up our testing site for integration tests. For this, we will need a MySQL or MariaDb instance, and a place to store testing files.

Testing database information is configured via the `DB_HOST` (defaults to `localhost`), `DB_PORT` (defaults to `3306`), `DB_DATABASE` (defaults to `flarum_test`), `DB_USERNAME` (defaults to `root`), `DB_PASSWORD` (defaults to `root`), and `DB_PREFIX` (defaults to `''`) environmental variables. The testing tmp directory path is configured via the `FLARUM_TEST_TMP_DIR_LOCAL` or `FLARUM_TEST_TMP_DIR` environmental variables, with the former taking precedence over the latter. If neither are provided, a `tmp` directory will be created in the `vendor` folder of your extension's local install.

Now that we've provided the needed information, all we need to do is run `composer test:setup` in our extension's root directory, and we have our testing environment ready to go!

Since [(almost)](https://github.com/flarum/framework/blob/4ecd9a9b2ff0e9ba42bb158f3f83bb3ddfc10853/framework/core/tests/integration/api/discussions/ListWithFulltextSearchTest.php#L29-L45) all database operations in integration tests are run in transactions, developers working on multiple extensions will generally find it more convenient to use one shared database and tmp directory for testing all their extensions. To do this, set the database config and `FLARUM_TEST_TMP_DIR` environmental variables in your `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile` to the path you want to use, and run the setup script for any one extension (you'll still want to include the setup file in every repo for CI testing via GitHub Actions). You should then be good to go for any Flarum extension (or core).

### Using Integration Tests

Flarum's integration test utils are contained in the `Flarum\Testing\integration\TestCase` class. It:

- Boots (and makes available) an instance of the Flarum application.
- Allows pre-populating the database, enabling extensions, and adding extenders.
- Runs all database changes in transactions, so your test database retains the default post-installation state.
- Allows sending requests through the middleware stack to test HTTP endpoints.

Your testcase classes should extend this class.

#### Test Case Setup

There are several important utilities available for your test cases:

- The `setting($key, $value)` method allows you to override settings before the app has booted. This is useful if your boot process has logic depending on settings (e.g. which driver to use for some system).
- Similarly, the `config($key, $value)` method allows you to override config.php values before the app has booted. You can use dot-delimited keys to set deep-nested values in the config array.
- The `extension($extensionId)` method will take Flarum IDs of extensions to enable as arguments. Your extension should always call this with your extension's ID at the start of test cases, unless the goal of the test case in question is to confirm some behavior present without your extension, and compare that to behavior when your extension is enabled. If your extension is dependent on other extensions, make sure they are included in the composer.json `require` field (or `require-dev` for [optional dependencies](extending-extensions.md)), and also list their composer package names when calling `extension()`. Note that you must list them in a valid order.
- The `extend($extender)` method takes instances of extenders as arguments, and is useful for testing extenders introduced by your extension for other extensions to use.
- The `prepareDatabase()` method allow you to pre-populate your database. This could include adding users, discussions, posts, configuring permissions, etc. Its argument is an associative array that maps table names to arrays of [record arrays](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/queries#insert-statements).

If your test case needs users beyond the default admin user, you can use the `$this->normalUser()` method of the `Flarum\Testing\integration\RetrievesAuthorizedUsers` trait.

:::warning

The `TestCase` class will boot a Flarum instance the first time its `app()` method is called. Any uses of `prepareDatabase`, `extend`, or `extension` after this happens will have no effect. Make sure you have done all the setup you need in your test case before calling `app()`, or `database()`, `server()`, or `send()`, which call `app()` implicitly. If you need to make database modifications after the app has booted, you can use the regular Eloquent save method, or the `Illuminate\Database\ConnectionInterface` instance obtained via calling the `database()` method.

:::

Of course, since this is all based on PHPUnit, you can use the `setUp()` methods of your test classes for common setup tasks.

Per esempio:

```php
<?php

/*
 * This file is part of Flarum.
 *
 * For detailed copyright and license information, please view the
 * LICENSE file that was distributed with this source code.
 */

namespace CoolExtension\Tests\integration;

use Flarum\Testing\integration\RetrievesAuthorizedUsers;
use Flarum\Testing\integration\TestCase;

class SomeTest extends TestCase
{
    use RetrievesAuthorizedUsers;

    public function setUp(): void
    {
        parent::setUp();

        $this->setting('my.custom.setting', true);

        // Let's assume our extension depends on tags.
        // Note that tags will need to be in your extension's composer.json's `require-dev`.
        // Also, make sure you include the ID of the extension currently being tested, unless you're
        // testing the baseline without your extension.
        $this->extension('flarum-tags', 'my-cool-extension');

        // Note that this input isn't validated: make sure you're populating with valid, representative data.
        $this->prepareDatabase([
            'users' => [
                $this->normalUser() // Available for convenience.
            ],
            'discussions' => [
                ['id' => 1, 'title' => 'some title', 'created_at' => Carbon::now(), 'last_posted_at' => Carbon::now(), 'user_id' => 1, 'first_post_id' => 1, 'comment_count' => 1]
            ],
            'posts' => [
                ['id' => 1, 'number' => 1, 'discussion_id' => 1, 'created_at' => Carbon::now(), 'user_id' => 1, 'type' => 'comment', 'content' => '<t><p>something</p></t>']
            ]
        ]);

        // Most test cases won't need to test extenders, but if you want to, you can.
        $this->extend((new CoolExtensionExtender)->doSomething('hello world'));
    }

    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function some_phpunit_test_case()
    {
        // ...
    }

    // ...
}
```

#### Sending Requests

A common application of automated testing is pinging various HTTP endpoints with various data, authenticated as different users. You can use this to ensure that:

- Users can't access content they're not supported to access.
- Permission-based create/edit/delete operations perform as expected.
- The type and schema of data returned is correct.
- Some desired side effect is applied when pinging an API.
- The basic API operations needed by your extension aren't erroring, and don't break when you make changes.

`TestCase` provides several utilities:

- The `request()` method constructs a `Psr\Http\Message\ServerRequestInterface` implementing object from a path, a method, and some options, which can be used for authentication, attaching cookies, or configuring the JSON request body. See the [method docblock](https://github.com/flarum/testing/blob/main/src/integration/TestCase.php) for more information on available options.
- Once you've created a request instance, you can send it (and get a response object back) via the `send()` method.

Per esempio:

```php
<?php

/*
 * This file is part of Flarum.
 *
 * For detailed copyright and license information, please view the
 * LICENSE file that was distributed with this source code.
 */

namespace CoolExtension\Tests\integration;

use Flarum\Testing\integration\TestCase;

class SomeTest extends TestCase
{
    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function can_search_users()
    {
        $response = $this->send(
          $this->request('GET', '/api/users', ['authenticatedAs' => 1])
               ->withQueryParams(['filter' => ['q' => 'john group:1'], 'sort' => 'username'])
        );

        $this->assertEquals(200, $response->getStatusCode());
    }

    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function can_create_user()
    {
        $response = $this->send(
          $this->request(
                'POST',
                '/api/users',
                [
                    'authenticatedAs' => 1,
                    'json' => [
                        'data' => [
                            'attributes' => [
                                'username' => 'test',
                                'password' => 'too-obscure',
                                'email' => 'test@machine.local'
                            ]
                        ]
                    ]
                ]
            )
        );

        $this->assertEquals(200, $response->getStatusCode());
    }

    // ...
}
```

:::cautela

If you want to send query parameters in a GET request, you can't include them in the path; you'll need to add them afterwards with the `withQueryParams` method.

:::

:::cautela

This is an extreme edge case, but note that MySQL does not update the fulltext index in transactions, so the standard approach won't work if you're trying to test a modified fulltext query. See [core's approach](https://github.com/flarum/framework/blob/main/framework/core/tests/integration/extenders/SimpleFlarumSearchTest.php) for an example of a workaround.

:::

#### Console Tests

If you want to test custom console commands, you can extend `Flarum\Testing\integration\ConsoleTestCase` (which itself extends the regular `Flarum\Testing\integration\TestCase`). It provides 2 useful methods:

- `$this->console()` returns an instance of `Symfony\Component\Console\Application`
- `$this->runCommand()` takes an array that will be wrapped in `Symfony\Component\Console\Input\ArrayInput`, and run. See the [Symfony code docblock](https://github.com/symfony/console/blob/5.x/Input/ArrayInput.php#L22) for more information.

Per esempio:

```php
<?php

/*
 * This file is part of Flarum.
 *
 * For detailed copyright and license information, please view the
 * LICENSE file that was distributed with this source code.
 */

namespace CoolExtension\Tests\integration;

use Flarum\Tests\integration\ConsoleTestCase;

class ConsoleTest extends ConsoleTestCase
{
    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function command_works()
    {
        $input = [
            'command' => 'some:command',  // The command name, equivalent of `php flarum some:command`
            'foo' => 'bar',  // arguments
            '--lorem' => 'ipsum'  // options
        ];

        $this->assertEquals('Some Output.', $this->runCommand($input));
    }
}
```

### Using Unit Tests

Unit testing in Flarum uses [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/getting-started/phpunit-9.html) and so unit testing in flarum is much like any other PHP application. You can find [general tutorials on testing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9-X_b_fxmRM) if you're also new to php.

When writing unit tests in Flarum, here are some helpful tips.

#### Mocking Flarum Services

Unlike the running app, or even integration tests, there is no app/container/etc to inject service instances into our classes.  Now all the  useful settings, or helpers your extension use require a _mock_ . We want to limit mocking to just the key services, supporting only the minimum interactions needed to test the contract of our individual functions.

```php
    public function setUp(): void
    {
        parent::setUp();
        // example - if our setting needs settings, we can mock the settings repository
        $settingsRepo = m::mock(SettingsRepositoryInterface::class);
        // and then control specific return values for each setting key
        $settingsRepo->shouldReceive('get')->with('some-plugin-key')->andReturn('some-value-useful-for-testing');
        // construct your class under test, passing mocked services as needed
        $this->serializer = new YourClassUnderTest($settingsRepo);
    }
```

Some aspects require more mocks. If you're validating authorization interactions for instance you might need to mock your users `User::class` and the request's method that provides them as well!

```
    $this->actor = m::mock(User::class);
    $request = m::mock(Request::class)->makePartial();
    $request->shouldReceive('getAttribute->getActor')->andReturn($this->actor);
    $this->actor->shouldReceive('SOME PERMISSION')->andReturn(true/false);
```

NOTE: If you find your extension needs _lots and lots_ of mocks, or mocks that feel unrelated, it might be an opportunity to simplify your code, perhaps moving key logic into their own smaller functions (that dont require mocks).

## Frontend Tests

Coming Soon!

## E2E Tests

Coming Soon!
