docs/admin.md, before:

# Admin Dashboard

The Flarum Admin Dashboard is a user-friendly interface for managing your forum.
It is only available to users in the "Admin" group.
To access the Admin dashboard, Click on your **Name** at the at the top right of the screen, and select **Administration**.

The Admin Dashboard has the following sections, being:
- **Dashboard** - Shows the main Admin Dashboard, containing statistics and other relevant information.
- **Basics** - Shows the options to set basic forum details such as Name, Description, and Welcome Banner.
- **Email** - Allows you to configure your E-Mail settings. Refer [here](https://docs.flarum.org/mail) for more information.
- **Permissions** - Shows the permissions for each user group, and allows you to configure global and specific scopes.
- **Appearance** - Allows you to customize the forum's colors, branding and add additional CSS for customization.
- **Users** - Provides you with a paginated list of all the users in the forum, and grants you the ability to edit the user or take administrative actions.

Apart from the above mentioned sections, the Admin Dashboard also allows you to manage your Extensions (including the flarum core extensions such as Tags) under the _Features_ section. Extensions which modify the forum theme, or allow you to use multiple languages are categorized under the _Themes_ and _Languages_ section respectively.

Commit message:

2.0 docs (#466)
* docs: log 2.0 changes (#460)

* docs: log 2.0 changes

* Update docs/extend/update-2_0.md

* chore: style improvements

* chore: document Code Splitting (#461)

* chore: document frontend theming/extensibility changes (#462)

* chore: document frontend theming/extensibility changes

* chore: document frontend theming/extensibility changes

* docs: search/filters upgrade guide and docs (#467)

* docs: search/filters upgrade guide and docs

* docs: indexing

* docs: search ui/ux (#468)

* docs: frontend gambits

* feat: improve visuals for logged changes

* docs

* docs: FormModal (#473)

* docs: JSON:API refactor (#472)

* docs: JSON:API refactor

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Alexander Skvortsov <38059171+askvortsov1@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix: review

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexander Skvortsov <38059171+askvortsov1@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs: update frontend testing section (#474)

* docs: update frontend testing section

* chore

* chore

* chore: update

* docs: sqlite/pgsql documentation (#475)

* docs: improve

* chore: updates

* chore: document recent changes (#477)

* feat: document settings reset extender (#478)

* feat: document locale changes

* feat: document email changes

* feat: document email changes

* fix: versioned assets

* chore: some user guide minor updates

* chore: update code

* chore: update main screenshot

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexander Skvortsov <38059171+askvortsov1@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/admin.md, after:

# Admin Dashboard

The Flarum Admin Dashboard is a user-friendly interface for managing your forum.
It is only available to users in the "Admin" group.
To access the Admin dashboard, Click on your **Name** at the at the top right of the screen, and select **Administration**.

The Admin Dashboard has the following sections, being:
- **Dashboard** - Shows the main Admin Dashboard, containing statistics and other relevant information.
- **Basics** - Shows the options to set basic forum details such as Name, Description, and Welcome Banner.
- **Email** - Allows you to configure your E-Mail settings. Refer [here](https://docs.flarum.org/mail) for more information.
- **Permissions** - Shows the permissions for each user group, and allows you to configure global and specific scopes.
- **Appearance** - Allows you to customize the forum's colors, branding and add additional CSS for customization.
- **Users** - Provides you with a paginated list of all the users in the forum, and grants you the ability to edit the user or take administrative actions.
- **Advanced** - Allows you to configure advanced settings such as Maintenance Mode, Search drivers, and more.

Apart from the above-mentioned sections, the Admin Dashboard also allows you to manage your Extensions (including the flarum core extensions such as Tags) under the _Features_ section. Extensions which modify the forum theme, or allow you to use multiple languages are categorized under the _Themes_ and _Languages_ section respectively.
