docs/contributing-docs-translations.md, before:

# Docs and Translation

## Add Documentation

Adding documentation can help countless future Flarum users. A few ideas of what to work on:

- User guides to help Flarum end users with some advanced Flarum features.
- More [frequently asked questions](faq.md).
- Expanded [troubleshooting](troubleshoot.md) steps.
- Step-by-step tutorials for Flarum development or installation. 
- [Technical reference guides](extend/README.md) for extension developers.
- Improving literally anything else you think we should elaborate on or explain better.

A good way to find topics to write about is to look for common questions in the [support tag](https://discuss.flarum.org/t/support) of our community.

## Translate Flarum

We want Flarum to be accessible to everyone, regardless of language! By contributing translations, you make it possible for many more people to enjoy Flarum. Best of all, we use user-friendly GUIs for translations, so no technical skills are necessary to help!

Translations for Flarum core, bundled extensions, and community extensions are managed through [Weblate](https://weblate.rob006.net/projects/flarum/).

Translations for this documentation are managed through [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/flarum-docs).

The Flarum Foundation has created the "flarum-lang" organization to support translators and ensure continuous availability of language packs. You can learn more about this by [visiting the GitHub repository](https://github.com/flarum-lang/about).

If you want to support an existing language pack, start a new translation, or you run into issues using weblate or crowdin, it's best to [get in touch with the `flarum-lang` team](https://discuss.flarum.org/d/27519-the-flarum-language-project).

Commit message:

Clarify that translations should only be contributed via Crowdin

docs/contributing-docs-translations.md, after:

# Docs and Translation

## Add Documentation

Adding documentation can help countless future Flarum users. A few ideas of what to work on:

- User guides to help Flarum end users with some advanced Flarum features.
- More [frequently asked questions](faq.md).
- Expanded [troubleshooting](troubleshoot.md) steps.
- Step-by-step tutorials for Flarum development or installation. 
- [Technical reference guides](extend/README.md) for extension developers.
- Improving literally anything else you think we should elaborate on or explain better.

A good way to find topics to write about is to look for common questions in the [support tag](https://discuss.flarum.org/t/support) of our community.

## Translate Flarum

We want Flarum to be accessible to everyone, regardless of language! By contributing translations, you make it possible for many more people to enjoy Flarum. Best of all, we use user-friendly GUIs for translations, so no technical skills are necessary to help!

Translations for Flarum core, bundled extensions, and community extensions are managed through [Weblate](https://weblate.rob006.net/projects/flarum/).

Translations for this documentation are managed through [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/flarum-docs). Please do not contribute translations via GitHub pull requests, as it is very likely that Crowdin will fail to fully sync your work, and your changes will be lost.

The Flarum Foundation has created the "flarum-lang" organization to support translators and ensure continuous availability of language packs. You can learn more about this by [visiting the GitHub repository](https://github.com/flarum-lang/about).

If you want to support an existing language pack, start a new translation, or you run into issues using weblate or crowdin, it's best to [get in touch with the `flarum-lang` team](https://discuss.flarum.org/d/27519-the-flarum-language-project).
