docs/README.md, before:

---
slug: /
---

# About Flarum

Flarum is a delightfully simple discussion platform for your website. It's fast and easy to use, with all the features you need to run a successful community.

This user guide will help you to set up your own forum using Flarum and teach you the basics of managing your community.

## Goals

Flarum is the combined successor of [esoTalk](https://github.com/esotalk/esoTalk) and [FluxBB](https://fluxbb.org). It is designed to be:

* **Fast and simple.** No clutter, no bloat, no complex dependencies. Flarum is built with PHP so it’s quick and easy to deploy. The interface is powered by [Mithril](https://mithril.js.org), a performant JavaScript framework with a tiny footprint.

* **Beautiful and responsive.** This is forum software for humans. Flarum is carefully designed to be consistent and intuitive across platforms, out-of-the-box.

* **Powerful and extensible.** Customize, extend, and integrate Flarum to suit your community. Flarum’s architecture is amazingly flexible, with a [powerful Extension API](/extend/README.md).

* **Free and open.** Flarum is released under the [MIT license](https://github.com/flarum/flarum/blob/master/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Expand contributing docs, README (#380)
- Add a screenshot and information about helping Flarum to the docs homepage
- Remove an irrelevant faq item
- Expand on `contributing` docs a bit, include "why contribute to Flarum"
- Add docs on contributing to translations and documentation
- Simplify "guide" activeBaseRegex

docs/README.md, after:

---
slug: /
---

# About Flarum

Flarum is a delightfully simple discussion platform for your website. It's fast, free, and easy to use, with all the features you need to run a successful community. It's also extremely extensible, allowing for ultimate customizability.

![Flarum Home Screenshot](/en/img/home_screenshot.png)

## Goals

Flarum is the combined successor of [esoTalk](https://github.com/esotalk/esoTalk) and [FluxBB](https://fluxbb.org). It is designed to be:

* **Fast and simple.** No clutter, no bloat, no complex dependencies. Flarum is built with PHP so it’s quick and easy to deploy. The interface is powered by [Mithril](https://mithril.js.org), a performant JavaScript framework with a tiny footprint.

* **Beautiful and responsive.** This is forum software for humans. Flarum is carefully designed to be consistent and intuitive across platforms, out-of-the-box.

* **Powerful and extensible.** Customize, extend, and integrate Flarum to suit your community. Flarum’s architecture is amazingly flexible, with a [powerful Extension API](/extend/README.md).

* **Free and open.** Flarum is released under the [MIT license](https://github.com/flarum/flarum/blob/master/LICENSE).

You can read more about our [philosophy and values for Flarum here](https://discuss.flarum.org/d/28869-flarum-philosophy-and-values).

## Help the Flarum Project

Flarum is [free, open source](https://github.com/flarum/core) software, maintained and governed by volunteers. We rely on community contributions to help us improve and expand Flarum.

🧑‍💻 If you're a developer, consider [contributing to Flarum's core or bundled extensions](contributing.md). This is **the** most efficient way to help Flarum, and your work can have a lot of impact: there are thousands of Flarum sites out there, with millions of total end users.

🧩 If there's a feature you're missing, or a theme idea you have, [writing a custom extension](extend/README.md) will make Flarum that much better for you and others.

✒️ If you're experienced in technical writing, your contributions to [our documentation](https://github.com/flarum/docs/issues) could help future users, admins, and developers make the most of Flarum.

🌐 If you speak multiple languages, you could [contribute translations](extend/language-packs.md) to could help make Flarum accessible to countless users around the world.

💸 The Flarum Foundation doesn't make money off of Flarum, but does have bills to pay. Donations via [Github Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/flarum) or [OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/flarum) are always gratefully received. In the past, we've also been able to support some of our core developers financially, so they could work on Flarum part time. This wouldn't be possible without your financial support.

🧑‍🤝‍🧑 Join [our community](https://discuss.flarum.org) to talk about Flarum development, get help with your instance, or just meet cool people! If you're experienced with Flarum, you can also help out beginners!

🐛 If there's a bug that's bothering you, or a feature idea on your mind, we can't know about it unless you tell us! We track bugs, suggestions, and future development plans [via GitHub issues](https://github.com/flarum/core/issues). If there's already an issue open, adding likes and (constructive) additional information can be very helpful! 

📣 And if you like Flarum, please consider blogging/tweeting/talking about it! More people aware of Flarum leads to more people engaging with Flarum, and therefore more activity, better extensions, and faster development.

Flarum wouldn't be possible without our phenomenal community. If you're interested in contributing, see our [developer contribution](contributing.md) and [other contribution](contributing-docs-translations.md) docs for more information.
