user/faq.md, before:

---
title: FAQ
---

## FAQ

### When will Flarum be stable?

It’s impossible for us to say at the moment – there are too many variables! You can follow our progress on the [Roadmap](http://flarum.org/roadmap).

Will I be able to upgrade from beta to subsequent releases?

Yes! However, the upgrade process may require you to get your hands a little dirty. We’ll do our best to ensure it’s as easy as possible.

### Can i donate money to speed up development?

All donations are gratefully received, and you can do so at this location:

[Make a Donation](http://flarum.org/donate)

However, donations will not directly impact the speed of development on Flarum, we also encourage users to contribute in other ways, such as:

 - [Code for Core](https://github.com/flarum/core)
 - Code Extensions (( Awaiting future link to document ))
 - Design / Develop Themes (( Awaiting future link to document ))
 - Contribute to Documentation (( Future link to contrib page ))
 - Translate Flarum (( Future link to Translation Docs ))
 - [Provide Help & Support on the community forums](https://discuss.flarum.org/)
 - [Make a monetary donation](http://flarum.org/donate)
 - Be a Flarumite! (Fan)

### So can I use the beta version in production? Please?

There’s a reason the [installation instructions](http://flarum.org/docs/installation/) begin by warning against this. Flarum is not mature yet, and there is plenty of room for something to go wrong. Extensions you’re relying on could be rendered incompatible by newer beta versions. Bugs could cause a loss of content or expose private information to the internet at large. Suboptimal SEO could hurt your site’s ranking, making it hard to attract new members. Existing members could get fed up with performance issues or incomplete features and head for greener pastures. And so on …

You may decide to ignore these risks and install Flarum anyway. That’s up to you … but please be aware that if things go horribly wrong, it will be your responsibility to deal with them. We can’t guarantee we’ll be able to help you fix your problems at all — much less in a timely fashion. So bear in mind that it’s **your** site that you’ll be putting on the line, and choose wisely.

### How do I add a header logo, links, or favicon?

We've made it super-easy to add a Logo, Favicon etc, please follow the short set of instructions as set out below!

1) Click on your **Name** at the at the top right of the screen, and select **Administration**

2) Select **Appearance** on the left hand navigation panel

3) On the page to the right, you'll see the option to upload your Logo, Favicon, etc. Go ahead and click **Choose an image..** under the appropriate label, and then select the image you want to upload.

4) Simple as that!

### Can I integrate Flarum with WordPress/Laravel/etc.?

Wouldn’t it be inte-great! Right now it’s not possible, but we do hope to work on integrations such as these in the future. If you’re a developer, feel free to kickstart the process!

### Will Flarum have [insert feature here]? When? Why not?

We would love to build countless features and extensions for Flarum, but first things first: Our focus is on the essentials and stability. Check out the [Roadmap](http://flarum.org/roadmap) for an overview of what we are planning to implement.

### Why haven’t you fixed [insert issue here] yet?

Here again the answer is “first things first”. If we haven’t fixed an issue (or assigned it a milestone) yet, it’s because we’re working on something else that’s just as important. Please be patient; we’ll try to get it done before release. Or if you’re in a hurry, feel free to fix it yourself and [contribute to the project](http://flarum.org/docs/contributing)!

### Will I be able to migrate my forum to Flarum?

Yes, but not for a while. Our focus right now is on getting Flarum stable and feature-complete. Once we’re confident that Flarum is ready to be used in production, we’ll start building tools to import data from other forum software like esoTalk, FluxBB, phpBB, and others.

### How can I format my posts?

Flarum currently does not have a visual editor – it’s just something we didn’t get to in time for beta. Rest assured, it is planned and will be available in the core soon.

Despite not having a visual editor at the moment, Flarum does support Markdown and BBCode. Markdown is a plain text format for writing structured documents, based on conventions used for indicating formatting in email and usenet posts. If you are completely new to Markdown, check out [this cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) to help you with formatting your posts on Flarum.

### How do I translate Flarum into my language?

Check out [this page](https://github.com/Arkinn/docs/blob/master/extend/internationalization.md) on how to translate Flarum!

Commit message:

Move appearance from faq to configuration, add how 2 become staff to faq

user/faq.md, after:

## FAQ

[toc]

### When will Flarum be stable?

It’s impossible for us to say at the moment – there are too many variables! You can follow our progress on the [Roadmap](http://flarum.org/roadmap).

Will I be able to upgrade from beta to subsequent releases?

Yes! However, the upgrade process may require you to get your hands a little dirty. We’ll do our best to ensure it’s as easy as possible.

### Can I donate money to speed up development?

All donations are gratefully received, and you can do so at this location:

- [Patreon](http://flarum.org/donate)
- [OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/flarum)

However, donations will not directly impact the speed of development on Flarum, we also encourage users to contribute in other ways, such as:

 - [Code for Core](https://github.com/flarum/core)
 - Code Extensions (( Awaiting future link to document ))
 - Design / Develop Themes (( Awaiting future link to document ))
 - Contribute to Documentation (( Future link to contrib page ))
 - Translate Flarum (( Future link to Translation Docs ))
 - [Provide Help & Support on the community forums](https://discuss.flarum.org/)
 - Be a Flarumite! (Fan)

### So can I use the beta version in production? Please?

There’s a reason the [installation instructions](http://flarum.org/docs/installation/) begin by warning against this. Flarum is not mature yet, and there is plenty of room for something to go wrong. Extensions you’re relying on could be rendered incompatible by newer beta versions. Bugs could cause a loss of content or expose private information to the internet at large. Suboptimal SEO could hurt your site’s ranking, making it hard to attract new members. Existing members could get fed up with performance issues or incomplete features and head for greener pastures. And so on …

You may decide to ignore these risks and install Flarum anyway. That’s up to you … but please be aware that if things go horribly wrong, it will be your responsibility to deal with them. We can’t guarantee we’ll be able to help you fix your problems at all — much less in a timely fashion. So bear in mind that it’s **your** site that you’ll be putting on the line, and choose wisely.

### Can I integrate Flarum with WordPress/Laravel/etc.?

Wouldn’t it be inte-great! Right now it’s not possible, but we do hope to work on integrations such as these in the future. If you’re a developer, feel free to kickstart the process!

### Will Flarum have [insert feature here]? When? Why not?

We would love to build countless features and extensions for Flarum, but first things first: Our focus is on the essentials and stability. Check out the [Roadmap](http://flarum.org/roadmap) for an overview of what we are planning to implement.

### Why haven’t you fixed [insert issue here] yet?

Here again the answer is “first things first”. If we haven’t fixed an issue (or assigned it a milestone) yet, it’s because we’re working on something else that’s just as important. Please be patient; we’ll try to get it done before release. Or if you’re in a hurry, feel free to fix it yourself and [contribute to the project](http://flarum.org/docs/contributing)!

### Will I be able to migrate my forum to Flarum?

Yes, but not for a while. Our focus right now is on getting Flarum stable and feature-complete. Once we’re confident that Flarum is ready to be used in production, we’ll start building tools to import data from other forum software like esoTalk, FluxBB, phpBB, and others.

### How can I format my posts?

Flarum currently does not have a visual editor – it’s just something we didn’t get to in time for beta. Rest assured, it is planned and will be available in the core soon.

Despite not having a visual editor at the moment, Flarum does support Markdown and BBCode. Markdown is a plain text format for writing structured documents, based on conventions used for indicating formatting in email and usenet posts. If you are completely new to Markdown, check out [this cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) to help you with formatting your posts on Flarum.

### How do I translate Flarum into my language?

Check out [this page](https://github.com/Arkinn/docs/blob/master/extend/internationalization.md) on how to translate Flarum!

### How do I become staff on Flarum Discuss?

> "Through an arcane and arduous ordeal, involving mystic rituals, life threatening peril and adventures to far off lands where many go and few return."
> 
> ~ jordanjay29

The real answer is that we generally keep an eye on our community for stand out members who would make good staff. Honestly, for most of our current staff, what they did before becoming staff wasn't much different from what they do now.

Find a passion and contribute however you feel is best. Then let it take its course. You don't have to have a badge to be respected here.
